Not see him since?
Sir, sir, that cannot be!
But were I not the betterpart made mercy,
I should not seek
an absent argument of myrevenge, thou peasant.
So look to it!
Find out thy brotherwheresoe'er he is!
Seek him with candle!
Bring him dead or livingwithin this twelvemonth,
or turn thou no more
to seek a living in ourterritories.
Thy lands and all things
that thou dost call thineworth seizure
do we seize into our hands
till thou canst quit theeby thy brother's mouth
of what we think againstthee.
O that your highness knewmy heart in this.
I never loved my brotherin my life.
More villain thou.
Well, push him out ofdoors!
And let my officers ofsuch a nature
make an extent upon hishouse and lands.
Do this expediently, andturn him going!
Hang there, my verse, in witnessof my love:
And thou, thrice-crowned queenof night, survey
with thy chaste eye from thypale sphere above
thy huntress' name that my fulllife doth sway.
O Rosalind,
these trees shall be my books,
and in their barks, my thoughtsI'll character
that every eye which in thisforest looks
shall see thy virtue witness'deverywhere.
Run, run, Orlando.
Carve on every tree
the fair, the chaste, andunexpressive she.
Uh.
And how like you this shepherd'slife,
Master Touchstone?
Truly, shepherd, in respect ofitself,
it is a good life,
but in respect that it is ashepherd's life,
it is naught.
In respect that it is solitary,I like it very well,
but in respect that it isprivate,
it is a very vile life.
Now, in respect it is in thefields,
it pleaseth me well;
but in respect it is not in thecourt, it is tedious.
As is it a spare life, look you,it fits my humor well;
but as there is no more plentyin it,
it goes much against my stomach.
Hast any philosophy in thee,shepherd?
No more but that I know the moreone sickens,
the worse at ease he is
and that he that wants money,means, and content
is without three good friends;
the property of rain is to wetand fire to burn;
that good pasture makes fatsheep
and that a great cause of thenight is lack of the sun;
that he that hath learned no witby nature nor art
may complain of good breeding orcomes of a very dull kindred.
Such a one is a naturalphilosopher.
Wast ever in court, shepherd?
No, truly.
Then thou art damned.
Nay, I hope.
Truly, thou art damned like anill-roasted egg,
all on one side.
For not being at court?
Oh, your reason?
Why, if thou never wast atcourt,
thou never sawest good manners;
if thou never sawest goodmanners, thy manners must bewicked;
and wickedness is sin, and sinis damnation.
Thou art in a parlous state,shepherd.
Not a whit, Touchstone:
those that are good manners atthe court
are as ridiculous in the country
as the behavior of the countryis most mockable at the court.
You told me that you salute notat the court,
but you kiss your hands.
That courtesy would be uncleanlyif courtiers were shepherds.
Instance, briefly; come,instance.
Why, we are still handling ourewes,
and their fells, you know, aregreasy.
Why, do not your courtier'shands sweat?
And is not the grease of amutton
as wholesome as the sweat of aman?
Shallow, shallow.
A better instance, I say; come.
Besides, our hands are hard.
Your lips will feel them thesooner.
Shallow again.
A more sounder instance, come.
And they are often tarred overwith the surgery of our sheep:
and would you have us kiss tar?
The courtier's hands areperfumed with civet.
Most shallow man,
thou worm's meat in respect of agood piece of flesh indeed.
Learn of the wise, and perpend.
Civet is of a baser birth thantar,
the very uncleanly flux of acat.
Mend the instance, shepherd.
You have too courtly a wit forme.
I'll rest.
Wilt thou rest damned?
God help thee, shallow man.
God make incision in thee.
Thou art raw.
Sir, I am a true laborer.
I earn that I eat,
get that I wear,
owe no man hate,
envy no man's happiness,
glad of other men's good,
content with my harm,
and the greatest of my pride
is to see my ewes graze and mylambs suck.
That is another simple sin inyou,
to bring the ewes and the ramstogether
and to offer to get your livingby the copulation of cattle.
If thou beest not damned forthis,
the devil himself will have noshepherds.
I cannot see else how thoushouldst 'scape.
"From the east to western Ind,
"no jewel is like Rosalind.
"Her worth, being mounted on thewi--
"wind,
"through all the world bearsRosalind.
"All the pictures fairest lined
"are but black to Rosalind.
"Let no face be kept in mind
but the fair of Rosalind."
I'll rhyme you so eight yearstogether,
dinners and suppers andsleeping-hours excepted.
This is the right butter-women'srank to market.
Out, fool.
For a taste:
If a hart do lack a hind,
let him seek out Rosalind.
If the cat will after kind,
so be sure will Rosalind.
Winter garments must be lined.
so must slender Rosalind.
They that reap must sheaf andbind;
then to cart with Rosalind.
Sweetest nut hath sourest rind.
Such a nut is Rosalind.
He that sweetest rose will find
must find love's prick andRosalind.
This is the very false gallop ofverses.
Why do you infect yourself withthem?
Peace, you dull fool.
I found them on a tree.
Truly, the tree yields badfruit.
I'll graff it with you,
and then I shall graff it with amedlar.
and then, it will be theearliest fruit of the country;
for you'll be rotten ere you behalf ripe,
and that's the right virtue ofthe medlar.
Ooh, you have said,but whetherwisely or no,
let the forest judge.
Peace, here comes my sister,reading.
Let's stand aside.
"Why should this a desert be?
"For it is unpeopled?
"No.
"Tongues I'll hang on every tree
that shall civil sayings show."
Hmm.
"But upon the fairest boughs
"or at every sentence end
"will I Rosalinda write,
"teaching all that read to know
"the quintessence of everysprite
"heaven would in little show.
"Therefore, Heaven Naturecharged
"that one body should be fill'd
"with all graces wide-enlarged.
"Nature presently distill'dHelen's cheek but not her heart,
"Cleopatra's majesty,
"Atalanta's better part,
"sad Lucretia's modesty.
"Thus Rosalind of many parts
"by heavenly synod was devised
"of many faces, eyes, and hearts
"to have the touches dearestprized.
"Heaven would that she thesegifts should have
and I to live and die herslave."
O most gentle pulpiter!
What tedious homily of love
have you wearied yourparishioners withal
and never cried, "Have patience,good people."
How now.
Back, friends.
Shepherd, go off a little.
Go with him, sirrah.
Come, shepherd, let us make anhonorable retreat,
though not with bag and baggage,
yet with scrip and scrippage.
Didst thou hear these verses?
O, yes, I heard them all andmore too,
for some of them had in themmore feet than the verses wouldbear.
But didst thou hear withoutwondering
how thy name should be hangedand carved upon these trees?
I was seven of the nine days outof the wonder
before you came,
for look you here what I foundon a palm tree.
I was never so be-rhymed sincePythagoras' time
that I was an Irish rat that Ican hardly remember.
Trow you who hath done this?
Is it a man?
Mm-hmm.
And a chain, that you once wore,about his neck.
Change you color?
I prithee, who?
O Lord, Lord.
It is a hard matter for friendsto meet,
but mountains may be removedwith earthquakes
and so encounter.
Nay, but who is it?
Is it possible?
Nay, I prithee now with mostpetitionary vehemence,
tell me who it is.
O wonderful, wonderful, and mostwonderful.
Wonderful, and yet againwonderful,
and after that, out of allhooping.
Good my complexion, dost thouthink,
though I am caparisoned like aman,
I have a doublet and hose in mydisposition?
One inch of delay more is aSouth sea of discovery.
I prithee, tell me who is itquickly, and speak apace.
I prithee, take the cork out ofthy mouth
that I may drink thy tidings.
So you may put a man in yourbelly.
Is he of God's making?
What manner of man?
Is his head worth a hat or hischin worth a beard?
Nay, he hath but a little beard.
Why, God will send him more ifthe man will be thankful.
Let me stay the growth of hisbeard
if you delay me not theknowledge of his chin.
No.
It is young Orlando
that tripped up the wrestler'sheels
and your heart both in aninstant.
Nay, but the devil take mocking.
Speak, sad brow and true maid.
I' faith, coz, 'tis he.
Orlando?
Orlando.
Oh.
Alas the day!
What shall I do with my doubletand hose?
Oh.
What did he when thou sawesthim?
What said he?
How looked he?
Wherein went he?
What makes he here?
Did he ask for me?
Where remains he?
How parted he with thee?
And when shalt thou see himagain?
Answer me in one word.
You must borrow me Gargantua'smouth first.
'Tis a word too great
for any mouth of this age'ssize.
Oh, but--but doth he know that Iam in this forest?
And in man's apparel?
Looks he as freshly as he didthe day he wrestled?
It's as easy to count atomies
as to resolve the propositionsof a lover,
but take a taste of my findinghim,
and relish it with goodobservance.
I found him under a tree, like adropped acorn.
It may well be called Jove'stree
when it drops forth such fruit.
Give me audience, good madam.
Proceed.
There lay he, stretched alonglike a wounded knight.
Oh, though it be pity to seesuch a sight,
yet it well becomes the ground.
Cry holla to thy tongue, Iprithee.
It curvets unseasonably.
He was furnished like a hunter.
O, ominous.
He comes to kill my heart.
I would sing my song without aburden.
Thou bringest me out of tune.
Do you not know I am a woman?
When I think, I must speak.
Sweet, say on.
You bring me out.
Soft.
Comes he not here?
'Tis he.
Slink by, and note him.
Oh!
I thank you for your company,
but, good faith, I had as liefhave been myself alone.
And so had I, but yet, forfashion sake,
I thank you too for yoursociety.
God by you.
Let's meet as little as we can.
I do desire we may be betterstrangers.
I pray you,
mar no more trees
with writing love songs in theirbarks.
I pray you, mar no more of myverses
with reading them ill-favoredly.
Rosalind is your love's name?
Yes, just.
I do not like her name.
There was no thought of pleasingyou
when she was christened.
What stature is she of?
Just as high as my heart.
You are full of pretty answers.
Have you not been acquaintedwith goldsmiths' wives
and conned them out of rings?
Not so; but I answer you rightpainted cloth
from whence you have studiedyour questions.
You have a nimble wit.
I think 'twas made of Atalanta'sheels.
Will you sit down with me?
And we two will rail against ourmistress the world
and all our misery.
I will chide no breather in theworld except myself,
against whom I know most faults.
The worst fault you have is tobe in love.
'Tis a fault I will not changefor your best virtue.
I am weary of you.
By my troth, I was seeking for afool when I found you.
He is drowned in the brook.
Look but in, and you shall seehim.
There I shall see mine ownfigure.
Which I take to be either a foolor a cipher.
I'll tarry no longer with you.
Farewell, good Signior Love.
I am glad of your departure.
Adieu, good Monsieur Melancholy.
I'll speak to him like a saucylackey
and under that habit play theknave with him.
Do you hear, forester?
Very well.
What would you?
I pray you, what is't o'clock?
You should ask me what time o'day.
There's no clock in the forest.
Then there is no true lover inthe forest,
else sighing every minute andgroaning every hour
would detect the lazy foot ofTime
as well as a clock.
And why not the swift foot ofTime?
Had not that been as proper?
By no means, sir.
Time travels in divers paceswith divers persons.
I'll tell you who Time ambleswithal,
who Time trots withal, who Timegallops withal,
and who he stands still withal.
I prithee, who doth he trotwithal?
Marry, he trots hard with ayoung maid
between the contract of hermarriage
and the--the--and the day thatit is solemnized,
for if the interim be but ase'nnight,
Time's pace is so hard it seemsthe length of seven year.
Who ambles Time withal?
With a priest that lacks Latin
and a rich man that hath not thegout,
for the one sleeps easilybecause he cannot study;
the other lives merrily becausehe feels no pain,
the one lacking the burden oflean and wasteful learning,
the other feeling no burden ofheavy tedious penury.
These, Time ambles withal.
Who doth he gallop withal?
With a thief to the gallows,
for though he go as soft as footcan fall,
he thinks himself too soonthere.
Who stays it still withal?
With lawyers in the vacation,
for they sleep between term andterm
and then they perceive not howTime moves.
Where dwell you, pretty youth?
With this shepherdess,
my sister,
here in the skirts of the forest
like fringe upon a petticoat.
Are you native of this place?
As the cony you see dwell whereshe is kindled.
Your accent is something finer
than you could purchase in soremoved a dwelling.
I have been told so of many,
and indeed, an old religiousuncle of mine
taught me to speak,
who was in his youth an inlandman,
one that knew courtship toowell,
for there he fell in love,
and I have heard him read manylectures against it,
and indeed, I thank God I am nota woman,
to be touched with so many giddyoffences
as he hath generally taxed theirwhole sex withal.
Can you remember any of theprincipal evils
that he lay to the charge ofwomen?
There were none principal.
They were all like one anotheras half pence are,
the one fault seeming monstrous
till his fellow fault came tomatch it.
I prithee, recount some of them.
No, I will not cast away myphysic
but upon those that are sick.
There is a man haunts the forestthat abuses our young plants
with carving "R-R-Rosalind" ontheir barks,
hangs odes upon hawthorns,elegies upon brambles,
all, forsooth, deifying the nameof Rosalind.
If I could meet thatfancy-monger,
I would give him some goodcounsel,
for he hath the quotidian oflove upon him.
I am he that is so love-shaked.
I pray you, tell me your remedy.
There is none of my uncle'smarks upon you.
He taught me how to know a manin love,
in which cage of rushes I amsure you are not prisoner.
And what were his marks?
A lean cheek, which you havenot;
a blue eye and sunken, which youhave not;
an unquestionable spirit, whichyou have not;
a beard neglected, which youhave not;
but I pardon you for that,
for simply your having in beardis a younger brother's revenue.
Then your hose should beungartered,
your bonnet unbanded, yoursleeve unbuttoned,
your shoe untied,
everything about you
demonstrating a carelessdesolation;
but you are no such man.
You are rather point-device inyour accoutrements
as loving yourself
than seeming the lover of anyother.
Fair youth, I would I could makethee believe,
I love.
Me, believe it?
You may as soon make her thatyou love believe it,
which, I warrant, she is apterto do
than to confess that she does.
That is one of the points inwhich women
still give the lie to theirconsciences.
But in good sooth, are you hethat hangs the verses on thetrees
wherein Rosalind is so admired?
I swear to thee, youth, by thewhite hand of Rosalind,
I am that he,
that unfortunate he.
But are you so much in love asyour rhymes speak?
Neither rhyme nor reason canexpress how much.
Ah, ha, ha!
Love is merely a madness and, Itell you,
deserves as well a dark houseand a whip as madmen do,
and the only reason they are notso punished and cured
is that the lunacy is soordinary
the whippers are in love too.
Yet I profess curing it bycounsel.
Did you ever cure any so?
Yes, one, and in this manner:
he was to imagine me his love,
his mistress,
and I set him every day to woome,
at which time would I, being buta moonish youth,
grieve, be effeminate,changeable, longing and liking,
proud, fantastical, full oftears, full of smiles,
for every passion something andfor no passion truly anything
as boys and women are for themost part
cattle of this color;
now like him, now loathe him;
then entertain him, thenforswear him;
now weep for him, then spit athim
that I drave my suitor from hismad humor of love
to a living humor of madness,
which was to forswear the fullstream of the world
and live in a nook merelymonastic.
And thus did I cure him,
and so will I take it on me
to wash your liver as clean as asound sheep's heart,
that there shall not be one spotof love in it.
I would not be cured, youth.
I would cure you if you wouldbut call me Rosalind
and come to my cote every dayand woo me.
Now, by the faith of my love, Iwill.
Tell me where it is.
Go with me to it, and I willshow it to you,
and by the way,
you shall tell me where in theforest you live.
Come; will you go?
With all my heart, good youth.
Nay, you must call me Rosalind.
Come, sister, will you go?
Come apace, good Audrey.
I will fetch up your goats,Audrey.
And how, Audrey?
Am I the man yet?
Doth my simple feature contentyou?
Your features! Lord warrant us!
What features?
I am here with thee and thygoats
as the most capricious poet,honest Ovid,
was among the Goths.
O knowledge ill-inhabited,
worse than Jove in a thatchedhouse.
When a man's verses can't beunderstood
or a man's good wit seconded
with the forward childunderstanding,
it strikes a man more dead
than a great reckoning in alittle room.
Truly, I would the gods had madethee poetical.
I do not know what "poetical"is.
Is it honest in deed and word?
Is it a true thing?
No, truly, for the truest poetryis the most feigning;
and lovers are given to poetry,
and what they swear in poetry
may be said as lovers they dofeign.
Do you wish then that the godshad made me poetical?
I do, truly; for thou swearestto me thou art honest.
Now, if thou wert a poet,
I might have some hope thoudidst feign.
Oh, would you not have mehonest?
No, truly--
unless thou wert hard-favored,
for honesty coupled to beauty
is to have honey a sauce tosugar.
A material fool!
Well, I am not fair,
and therefore, I pray the godsmake me honest.
Truly, and to cast away honestyupon a foul slut
were to put good meat into anunclean dish.
I am not a slut,
though I thank the gods I amfoul.
Well, praised be the gods forthy foulness.
Sluttishness may come hereafter.
But be it as it may be,
I will marry thee,
and to that end, I have beenwith Sir Oliver Martext,
the vicar of the next village,
who hath promised to meet me inthis place of the forest
and to couple us.
I would fain see this meeting.
Well, the gods give us joy!
Amen.
Oh, a man may, if he were of afearful heart,
stagger in this attempt,
for here we have no temple butthe wood,
no assembly but horn-beasts.
But what though?
Courage.
As horns are odious, they arenecessary.
No, as a walled town is moreworthier than a village,
so is the forehead of a marriedman
more honorable than the barebrow of a bachelor.
Sir Oliver Martext,
you are well met.
Will you dispatch us here underthis tree?
Or shall we go with you to yourchapel?
Yes, yes, yes.
I-I-Is there none here to givethe woman?
I will not take her on gift ofany man.
Truly, sir, she must be given,
or the marriage is not lawful.
Proceed, proceed.
I'll give her.
Good even, good MasterWhat-ye-call't.
How do you, sir?
You are very well met.
I am very glad to see you--
even a toy in hand here, sir.
Nay, pray be covered.
Will you be married, motley?
As the ox hath his bow, sir,
and the horse his curb and thefalcon her bells,
so a man hath his desires;
and as pigeons bill, so wedlockwould be nibbling.
Will you, being a man of yourbreeding,
be married under a bush like abeggar?
Get you to church, and have agood priest
that can tell you what marriageis.
This fellow will but join youtogether
as they join wainscot,
and then one of you will prove ashrunk panel
and, like green timber, warp--
warp.
I am not in the mind,
but I were better to be marriedof him than of another,
for he is not like to marry mewell,
and not being well-married,
it will be a good excuse for mehereafter
to leave my wife.
Go thou with me, and let mecounsel thee.
'Come, sweet Audrey.
We must be married, or we mustlive in bawdry.
Farewell, good Master Oliver,
not, "O sweet Oliver, O braveOliver,
leave me not behind thee,"
but, "Wind away;
"Begone, I say,
I will not to wedding withthee."
'Tis no matter.
There's ne'er a fantasticalknave of them all
shall flout me out of mycalling.
Never talk to me.
I will weep.
Do, I prithee,
and yet have the grace toconsider
that tears do not become a man.
Have I not cause to weep?
As good a cause as one coulddesire.
Therefore, weep.
His very hair is of thedissembling color.
Something browner than Judas'smarry.
His kisses are Judas's ownchildren.
I' faith, his hair is of a goodcolor.
An excellent color.
Your chestnut was ever the onlycolor.
And his kissing is as full ofsanctity
as is the touch of holy bread.
A nun of winter's sisterhoodkisses not more religiously.
There is the ice of chastity inthem.
But why did he swear he wouldcome this morning
and comes not?
Nay, certainly, there is notruth in him.
Not true in love?
When he is in, but I think he isnot in.
But you have heard him sweardownright he was.
"Was" is not "is."
Besides, the oath of a lover
is no stronger than the words ofa tapster.
They are both the confirmer offalse reckonings.
Oh, he attends here in theforest
on the duke thy father.
I met the duke yesterday and hadmuch question with him.
He asked me of what parentage Iwas.
I told him of as good as he, andso he laughed and let me go.
But what talk we of fathers
when there is such a man asOrlando?
O, there's a brave man.
He writes brave verses, speaksbrave words,
swears brave oaths, and breaksthem bravely,
quite traverse, athwart theheart of his lover.
But all's brave
that youth mounts and follyguides.
Mistress and master,
you have oft inquired
after the shepherd whocomplain'd of love
who you saw sitting by me on theturf,
praising the proud disdainfulshepherdess
that was his mistress.
Well, and what of him?
If you would see a pageant trulyplay'd
between the pale complexion oftrue love
and the red glow of scorn andproud disdain,
go hence a little, and I shallconduct you
if you will mark it.
O, come, let us remove.
The sight of lovers feedeththose in love.
Oh.
Sweet Phebe, do not scorn me.
Do not.
Phebe.
Say that you love me not,
but say not so in bitterness.
The common executioner,
whose heart the accustom'd sightof death makes hard,
falls not the axe upon thehumbled neck
but first begs pardon.
Will you sterner be than he
that dies and lives by bloodydrops?
I would not be thy executioner.
I fly thee, for I would notinjure thee.
Thou tell'st me there is murderin mine eye.
'Tis pretty, sure, and veryprobable,
that eyes, that are the frail'stand softest things
who shut their coward gates onatomies
should be call'd tyrants,butchers, murderers.
Now I do frown on thee with allmy heart,
and if mine eyes can wound, nowlet them kill thee.
Counterfeit to swoon.
Why now, fall down.
Or if thou canst not, O, forshame, for shame.
Lie not to say mine eyes aremurderers.
Now show the wound mine eye hathmade in thee.
No, I am sure,
there is no force in eyes thatcan do hurt.
O dear Phebe,
if ever as that ever may be near
you meet in some fresh cheek thepower of fancy,
then shall you know the woundsinvisible
that love's keen arrows make.
But till that time, come notthou near me,
and when that time comes,
afflict me with thy mocks.
Pity me not,
as till that time, I shall notpity thee.
And why, I pray you?
Who might be your mother
that you insult, exult-- and allat once--
over the wretched?
What though you have no beauty--
as, by my life, I see no more inyou
than without candle may go darkto bed--
must you be therefore proud andpitiless?
Why, what means this?
Why do you look on me?
I see no more in you
than in the ordinary of nature'ssale-work.
'Od's my little life,
I think she means to tangle myeyes too.
No, faith, proud mistress, hopenot after it.
'Tis not your inky brows, yourblack silk hair,
your bugle eyeballs, nor yourcheek of cream
that can entame my spirits toyour worship.
You foolish shepherd,
why do you follow her
like foggy south puffing withwind and rain?
You are a thousand times aproperer man than she a woman.
'Tis such fools as you
as makes the world full ofill-favor'd children:
'Tis not her glass but you thatflatters her;
and out of you, she sees herselfmore proper
than any of her lineaments canshow her.
But, mistress, know yourself.
Down on your knees and thankheaven, fasting,
for a good man's love,
for I must tell you friendly inyour ear,
sell when you can.
You are not for all markets.
Cry the man mercy.
Love him.
Take his offer.
Foul is most foul being foul tobe a scoffer.
So take her to thee, shepherd.
Fare thee well.
Sweet youth, I pray you, chide ayear together.
I'd rather hear you chide thanthis man woo.
He's fallen in love with yourfoulness,
and she'll fall in love with myanger.
If it be so,
as fast as she answers thee withfrowning looks,
I'll sauce her with bitterwords.
Why look you so on me?
For no ill will I bear you.
I pray you, do not fall in lovewith me,
for I am falser than vows madein wine.
Besides, I like you not.
I-If you will know my house,
'tis at the tuft of olives herehard by.
Sister, will you go?
Shepherd, ply her hard.
Come, sister.
Shepherdess, look on him better,
and be not proud.
Though all the world could see,
none could be so abused in sightas he.
Come, to our flock.
Dead shepherd, now I find thysaw of might,
"Whoever loved that loved not atfirst sight?"
Sweet Phebe--
Ha, what say'st thou, Silvius?
Sweet Phebe, pity me.
Why, I am sorry for thee, gentleSilvius.
Wherever sorrow is, relief wouldbe.
If you do sorrow at my grief inlove,
then by giving love,
your sorrow and my grief wereboth extermined.
Thou hast my love.
Is not that neighborly?
I would have you.
Why, that were covetousness.
Silvius, the time was that Ihated thee,
and yet it is not that I bearthee love,
but since that thou canst talkof love so well,
thy company, which erst wasirksome to me,
I will endure,
and I'll employ thee too.
But do not look for furtherrecompense
than thine own gladness thatthou art employ'd.
So holy and so perfect is mylove
and I in such a poverty of grace
that I shall think it a mostplenteous crop
to glean the broken ears
after the man that the mainharvest reaps.
Loose now and then a scatter'dsmile,
and that I'll live upon.
Know'st now the youth that spoketo me erewhile?
Not very well, but I have methim oft,
and he hath bought the cottageand the bounds
that the old carlot once wasmaster of.
Think not I love him, though Iask for him.
'Tis but a peevish boy.
Yet he talks well.
But what care I for words?
Yet words do well when he thatspeaks them
pleases those that hear.
It is a pretty youth-- not verypretty--
but, sure, he's proud,
and yet his pride becomes him.
He'll make a proper man.
The best thing in him is hiscomplexion,
and faster than his tongue didmake offence,
his eye did heal it up.
He is not very tall.
Yet for his years, he's tall.
His leg is but so-so, and yet'tis well.
There was a pretty redness inhis lip,
a little riper and more lustyred than that mix'd in hischeek.
'Twas just the difference
betwixt the constant red andmingled damask.
There be some women, Silvius,
had they mark'd him in parcelsas I did,
would have gone near to fall inlove with him,
but, for my part, I love him notnor hate him not,
and yet I have more cause tohate him than to love him.
For what had he to do to chideat me?
He said mine eyes were black andmy hair black
and, now I am remember'd,scorn'd at me.
I marvel why I answer'd notagain.
But that's all one.
Omittance is no quittance.
I'll write to him a verytaunting letter,
and thou shalt bear it.
Wilt thou, Silvius?
Phebe, with all my heart.
I'll write it straight.
Go with me, Silvius.